# Open ONI
**Open Online Newspaper Initiative (Open ONI)** is a community-maintained
project to make historic American newspapers browsable and searchable on the
web. We aim to enable individual state and library-based newspaper collections
to more easily provide these core capabilities, as well as develop new common
features and improvements.

Read ["About Open ONI" in our
wiki](https://github.com/open-oni/open-oni/wiki/About-Open-ONI) for more
information about the project's origins.

## Open ONI-powered Sites
Visit sites currently powered by Open ONI:

- [Historic Oregon Newspapers](https://oregonnews.uoregon.edu/)
- [Pennsylvania Newspaper Archive](http://panewsarchive.psu.edu/)
- [Nebraska Newspapers](https://nebnewspapers.unl.edu/)

View ["Sites using Open ONI" in our
wiki](https://github.com/open-oni/open-oni/wiki/Sites-Using-Open-ONI) for links
to the sites' source code.

## Install
Open ONI is currently not ready for general production use, but we are closing
in on a 1.0 release soon. The 1.0 release will include upgrading Django to the
latest LTS 2.2 release along with migrating to Python 3 and upgrading Solr and
MariaDB to more recent releases. No major feature changes are planned between
0.11 and 1.0. Note that 0.11 runs Python 2 and Django 1.11 LTS which goes out of
support in April 2020.

To evaluate the software, we recommend installing from the [latest Open ONI
release](https://github.com/open-oni/open-oni/releases/latest).

If you're interested in more recent changes, check out the `dev` branch but be
warned that we don't absolutely guarantee it will always be in a working state.

## Documentation
- [Production Install
Instructions](https://github.com/open-oni/open-oni/tree/master/docs)
- [The Open ONI Wiki](https://github.com/open-oni/open-oni/wiki)

## Support
Notes that maintainers can only provide a minimal amount of assistance while
working on Open ONI part-time. Developers cannot be expected to provide
extensive one-on-one support.

We are glad to provide support specifically related to Open ONI, but anyone
wanting to work with Open ONI should begin with some foundational knowledge of
Linux, Docker, Apache, Python, Django, Solr, MariaDB/MySQL, and IIIF. There are
other resources and communities better suited to aid in getting started and
familiar with those technologies, so general assistance with them falls outside
the scope of what to expect Open ONI developers to provide.

We ask that bugs and feature requests be submitted to [Open ONI on
GitHub](https://github.com/open-oni/open-oni/issues). Please confine other
questions and conversation about Open ONI development and use to [Open ONI's
Slack](http://bit.ly/openoni-slack-signup). These guidelines are intended both
to keep conversation in the open where it may benefit all of the Open ONI
community and to protect developers' already limited time.

## Contact Us
We prefer to communicate on the [Open ONI
Slack](http://bit.ly/openoni-slack-signup), but if you have trouble or prefer
not to use Slack, email Greg Tunink (techgique [at] unl.edu).

### Security
To report a security concern or vulnerability, please ask for a project
maintainer to direct message you on the [Open ONI
Slack](http://bit.ly/openoni-slack-signup) or email Greg Tunink
(techgique [at] unl.edu). Maintainers will evaluate, discuss responsible
disclosure and patching, and give many thanks and credit for your generous
assistance.

## Contribute
If you are interested in collaborating on the project, please read ["Contribute"
in our wiki](https://github.com/open-oni/open-oni/wiki/Contribute) for more
details.

## License
[Licensed](https://github.com/open-oni/open-oni/blob/master/LICENSE) under the
Apache License, Version 2.0
